Interview number three, interviewer Steve Fletcher, Artistic Director of Swiffer Carnival,
interviewee Rob Davie. Rob could you spell your name for us please? Yes Rob is R-O-B and Davie is
D-A-V-E-Y. Thank you very much. So please can you tell us how did you first get involved with the
Cardiff Mask Carnival? Yes I remember it well actually. In 1992 my wife Alva got herself
involved in the carnival which I think was held at Fitzallen that year and my recollection of that
year is that I was working most of the time but came down on odd occasions during the evening to
have a look and see exactly what my wife had got herself and our children involved in and thought
it probably wasn't really for me. It seemed to be a lot of sewing and chatting and a huge amount of
material going on there.
And it didn't seem to be something that I really wanted to get myself involved in. However I certainly
watched that carnival and then the next year I decided that if I had any chance of actually seeing
my wife and children for three weeks that summer and probably the forthcoming summers I probably
had to get involved myself and that's really what I did. And I think that year I messed about with
the whole idea of having a look at the carnival and then the following year which is 1994, the blues
year as I recall, there was a lot of blue paint going around which left an indelible stain on our
bath, at least for many many weeks. I did actually get myself into a costume, something that I would
never have thought I would ever have done. And we never looked back for the next sort of eight,
nine years I think. Got myself into costume every year. I got myself into a costume every year and
I messed about, sang a lot of songs, chanted a lot of chants and generally had a good time.
Is there one costume in particular that's a standout costume for you out of the many that you
played over the years? Yeah I think so. I think it's pretty obvious. I think it generally agreed
amongst the family is probably the Player of Games which was, I don't know when that was,
mid to late 90s probably. I don't know whose idea it was but I know my wife made the costume
and I remember standing on the steps of the museum wearing this darn costume and it was a pretty
pretty smart costume actually. I enjoyed wearing that one. Yeah. In terms of the value of Carnival
and its impact, if you had to describe some of the benefits that you perhaps you've seen personally
or amongst your family or as a long time, you know, 10 years of Carnival involvement you'll have seen a lot.
Yeah. How does it affect people? Well I think from this perspective which is some time after,
we've not done it for a number of years now because we moved away from Cardiff so we've not
been able to really. I think it's fair to say that it's definitely changed and enhanced our lives
but I think more than that I think it's actually informed our kids lives because they started doing
Carnival when they were quite young, I don't know about 9 and 11, something like that. And I don't
that as far as they're concerned their lives have been changed because of it for instance my son guy
went into theater where he remains and I think that was certainly helped by being involved in
mass and I'm Tasha my daughter went to Africa went to Senegal and married a Senegalese man
and I think the fact that we lived on the face of it a suburban middle-class life in Cardiff would
have meant it would been quite difficult for us to have been involved in it with in and with sort
of people that that mass brought us into contact with and whilst I think we had the values of
multiculturalism and integration with with other groups of people I think it would have been
difficult to realize without the mass and I think that's what the
the mass would have been able to do and I think that's what the mass would have been able to do
and I think that's what the mass has done for us and has done for many people it's brought people
together who otherwise wouldn't have come together I think that's that's its Essence really and you
mentioned chanting earlier uh do you recall any of the charts would you care to share one with us for
posterity ah well yes um I do recall the chance I remember um my kids getting very involved with the
workshops and actually Tasha who was quite a small girl then um she was probably only about 10 or 11.
leading some of the chants um and you know we we I think we all recorded them as a family
um and they're certainly somewhere around I'm not sure if I can remember them well enough to actually
uh to actually sing now to be honest um that might come back to me no worries and obviously uh after
three weeks of workshop there's the you know the big blowout the parade itself can you go what kind
of audience reactions can you
recall um I remember in fact today because we we've been talking about mass today um and I was
looking at one of my diary entries um from from the early days and I actually said in my diary that
um I think that was the year I was drumming and I actually said didn't really see anything of the
mass at all um didn't really know what was going on I was so involved with the drumming and because
drumming certainly wasn't my forte
I was I think I was doing a lot of counting um during the mass itself so certainly that one
um I I didn't really see much of at all gradually as I got more used to the mass I think I think you
tend to look up and look around and and I just remember huge crowds lining the streets um and
um I I do remember wishing that the crowd would actually uh interact more with with the actual
mass um and I think in a way we were doing it for ourselves I think it was a wonderful
that they were there um uh I do remember one year with Zouvier which is the the the night before the
the carnival um uh cruising through the cafe quarter in cardiff um which had just then opened
it was a brand new cafe quarter and something that we hadn't really ever seen before people
sitting outside um on the on the pavements drinking and eating and getting a huge response
from them but during the actual mass itself i'm i i was pretty wrapped up in what we were doing
really to to be anything other than just vaguely aware of this huge body of people somewhere uh
around us yeah unless you care to give us a chance i think that was the top only two you
touched on everything i could hope for okay i don't feel obliged on the chat because natasha
really did sing a heart yeah no that's fine i'll leave that to tasha to um
switch that off that was brilliant there was a number of